Contagions and pestilence are an intrusion of nature on human life. When a contagious disease takes root among a populace, it is not the fault of any human (barring negligence and volitional spreading). The agent that is primarily responsible for disease is nature itself. Except where a disease is spread from one human to another through negligence or volition, the spread of disease is not a human failing. The enemy that causes disease is not human action or inaction (barring negligence and volition), but nature and its impositions on human life.

Through the rigorous application of the scientific method (aka, observation/measurement and reasoning), human agents may identify the nature of the disease and invent methods of controlling and/or curing the disease. When such a human agent does invent a treatment, the culpability for the disease does not suddenly shift from nature to that human agent. Nature remains the root cause of the suffering.

The human agents who go about labouring to invent, manufacture, mass produce, distribute and sell the treatment are merely cleaning up a mess started by nature. Nature has the power to introduce calamnities which are difficult to get under our control. In the moment when a human agent invents a treatment, or participates in the manufacture/distribution/sale of such a treatment, that agent does not suddenly gain a super-human responsibility for ensuring that every individual afflicted with the disease gets access to the treatment. That agent remains human, having only human capabilities, and therefore can only be answerable for the things that a human can do -- and s/he doesn't become answerable for saving everyone.
